Overview
========

The purpose of this document is to define the management of security
incidents and improvements

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2 "Management of information security incidents
    and improvements"
2.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10](b5b0b831-ee7f-4547-b633-07b5f067ec0f)" Implement an incident
    response plan
3.  NIST [SP 800-61 Rev. 2 - Computer Security Incident Handling
    Guide](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-61/rev-2/final):
    2.3 Incident Response Policy, Plan, and Procedure Creation
    </details>

Mission
=======

Incident Response Team (IRT) is to detect/contain cybersecurity threats
to Company, determine the identity of the threat actor(s), work with
applicable law enforcement, and provide applicable cyber intelligence to
Company.

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  NIST [SP 800-61 Rev. 2 - Computer Security Incident Handling
    Guide](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-61/rev-2/final):
    2.3.2 Plan Elements </details>

Service Catalog
===============

Data collection for threat intel Data analytics Generation of threat
intel

Responsibility and procedures
=============================

Management responsibilities and procedures should be established to
ensure a quick, effective, and orderly response to information security
incidents.

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1 "Responsibility and procedures"
2.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.1](52f61aa2-5622-490a-8735-a4e94499c706) Create the incident
    response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach
3.  NIST [SP 800-61 Rev. 2 - Computer Security Incident Handling
    Guide](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-61/rev-2/final):
    2.3.2 Plan Elements </details>

Organizational structure and responsibilities
=============================================

The Security Incident Management group reports to the Manager of Cyber
Security.

The group’s lead is the primary conduit for day-to-day operational and
escalation needs.

Members of the group will maintain an on-call rotation to obtain
24/7/365 coverage

Appropriate training will be provided to group members for how to
respond to security breaches. Group members are additionally expected to
continually seek out training on their own.

The group will follow a centralized
model<sup><a id="Organizational_structure_and_responsibilities-ref1-src" href="#Organizational_structure_and_responsibilities-ref1">\[1\]</a></sup>
but the members may be geographically disperse.

Staffing will be pridominately follow a partially outsourced
model.<sup><a id="Organizational_structure_and_responsibilities-ref2-src" href="#Organizational_structure_and_responsibilities-ref2">\[2\]</a></sup>
Consultants are to be used for the first level screening of incoming
information without access to sensitive information.

<details><summary>Footnotes</summary>

1.  <a id="Organizational_structure_and_responsibilities-ref1" href="#Organizational_structure_and_responsibilities-ref1-src" title="Jump up">^</a>
    NIST SP 800-61 Rev. 2: 2.4.1 Team Models: Central Incident Response
    Team
2.  <a id="Organizational_structure_and_responsibilities-ref2" href="#Organizational_structure_and_responsibilities-ref2-src" title="Jump up">^</a>
    NIST SP 800-61 Rev. 2: 2.4.1 staffing models: Partially Outsourced
    </details>

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1 "Responsibility and procedures"
2.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.1](52f61aa2-5622-490a-8735-a4e94499c706)" Create the incident
    response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach
3.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.3](1fb68322-8ba4-485e-8c2f-be4b174f4aad)" Designate specific
    personnel to be available
4.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.4](1d38a229-60e7-4559-856e-cdcf72577c99)" Provide appropriate
    training to staff
5.  NIST [SP 800-61 Rev. 2 - Computer Security Incident Handling
    Guide](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-61/rev-2/final):
    2.4.1 Team Models </details>

Procedure
=========

Group team members are to monitor systems, alerts, and vulnerabilities
to detect security incidents.

procedures should be established to handle different types of
information security incident, including:

-   information system failures and loss of service;
-   malicious code (see
    10.4.1);<sup><a id="Procedure-ref1-src" href="#Procedure-ref1">\[1\]</a></sup>
-   denial of service;
-   errors resulting from incomplete or inaccurate business data;
-   breaches of confidentiality and integrity;
-   misuse of information systems;

in addition to normal contingency plans (see 14.1.3), the procedures
should also cover (see also 13.2.2):

-   analysis and identification of the cause of the incident;
-   containment;
-   planning and implementation of corrective action to prevent
    recurrence, if necessary;
-   communication with those affected by or involved with recovery from
    the incident;
-   reporting the action to the appropriate authority;

audit trails and similar evidence should be collected (see 13.2.3) and
secured, as appropriate, for:

-   internal problem analysis;
-   use as forensic evidence in relation to a potential breach of
    contract or regulatory requirement or in the event of civil or
    criminal proceedings, e.g. under computer misuse or data protection
    legislation;
-   negotiating for compensation from software and service suppliers;

NIST 2.3.3 Procedures should be based on the incident response policy
and plan. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) are a delineation of the
specific technical processes, techniques, checklists, and forms used by
the incident response team. SOPs should be reasonably comprehensive and
detailed to ensure that the

priorities of the organization are reflected in response operations. In
addition, following standardized responses should minimize errors,
particularly those that might be caused by stressful incident handling
situations. SOPs should be tested to validate their accuracy and
usefulness, then distributed to all team members. Training should be
provided for SOP users; the SOP documents can be used as an
instructional tool. Suggested SOP elements are presented throughout
Section 3.

<details><summary>Footnotes</summary>

1.  <a id="Procedure-ref1" href="#Procedure-ref1-src" title="Jump up">^</a>
    ISO 27002:2005 10.4.1 Controls against malicious code </details>

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1 "Responsibility and procedures"
2.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1.a "Responsibility and procedures"
3.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1.b "Responsibility and procedures"
4.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1.c "Responsibility and procedures"
5.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.1](52f61aa2-5622-490a-8735-a4e94499c706)" Create the incident
    response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach
6.  NIST [SP 800-61 Rev. 2 - Computer Security Incident Handling
    Guide](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-61/rev-2/final):
    2.3.3 Procedure Elements </details>

Recovery
========

action to recover from security breaches and correct system failures
should be carefully and formally controlled; the procedures should
ensure that:

-   only clearly identified and authorized personnel are allowed access
    to live systems and data (see also 6.2 for external access);
-   all emergency actions taken are documented in detail;
-   emergency action is reported to management and reviewed in an
    orderly manner;
-   the integrity of business systems and controls is confirmed with
    minimal delay.

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1 "Responsibility and procedures"
2.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1.d "Responsibility and procedures" </details>

Escalation procedures
=====================

The objectives for information security incident management should be
agreed with management, and it should be ensured that those responsible
for information security incident management understand the
organization’s priorities for handling information security incidents.

Information security incidents might transcend organizational and
national boundaries. To respond to such incidents there is an increasing
need to coordinate response and share information about these incidents
with external organizations as appropriate.

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.1 "Responsibility and procedures"
2.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.1](52f61aa2-5622-490a-8735-a4e94499c706)" Create the incident
    response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach
    </details>

Learning from information security incidents
============================================

There should be mechanisms in place to enable the types, volumes, and
costs of information security incidents to be quantified and monitored.

The information gained from the evaluation of information security
incidents should be used to identify recurring or high impact incidents.

The evaluation of information security incidents may indicate the need
for enhanced or additional controls to limit the frequency, damage, and
cost of future occurrences, or to be taken into account in the security
policy review process (see 5.1.2).

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.2 "Learning from information security incidents"
2.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.2](80d15b5e-b53c-4e24-8009-59108f7a648c)" Review and test the
    plan
3.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.6](2e27e0a6-51ad-40f8-985a-0aaf5b27c131)" Develop a process
    to modify and evolve the incident response plan
4.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.11](24c4ffec-40cb-4abf-aa42-ce0677dc6b96)" Perform reviews
5.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.11.1](f29e60fc-9fc1-41d9-b4d9-0f9f3e2ad734)" Maintain
    documentation of review process </details>

Reporting, metrics and cyber intelligence
=========================================

2.3.4 Sharing Information With Outside Parties Organizations often need
to communicate with outside parties regarding an incident, and they
should do so whenever appropriate, such as contacting law enforcement,
fielding media inquiries, and seeking external expertise. Another
example is discussing incidents with other involved parties, such as
Internet service providers (ISPs), the vendor of vulnerable software, or
other incident response teams. Organizations may also proactively share
relevant incident indicator information with peers to improve detection
and analysis of incidents. The incident response team should discuss
information sharing with the organization’s public affairs office, legal
department, and management before an incident occurs to establish
policies and procedures regarding information sharing. Otherwise,
sensitive information regarding incidents may be provided to
unauthorized parties, potentially leading to additional disruption and
financial loss. The team should document all contacts and communications
with outside parties for liability and evidentiary purposes. The
following sections provide guidelines on communicating with several
types of outside parties, as depicted in Figure 2-1. The double-headed
arrows indicate that either party may initiate communications. See
Section 4 for additional information on communicating with outside
parties, and see Section 2.4 for a discussion of communications
involving incident response outsourcers.

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.1](52f61aa2-5622-490a-8735-a4e94499c706)" Create the incident
    response plan to be implemented in the event of system breach
2.  NIST [SP 800-61 Rev. 2 - Computer Security Incident Handling
    Guide](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-61/rev-2/final):
    2.3.4 Sharing Information With Outside Parties </details>

Collection of evidence
======================

Where a follow-up action against a person or organization after an
information security incident involves legal action (either civil or
criminal), evidence should be collected, retained, and presented to
conform to the rules for evidence laid down in the relevant
jurisdiction(s).

Internal procedures should be developed and followed when collecting and
presenting evidence for the purposes of disciplinary action handled
within an organization.

In general, the rules for evidence cover: a) admissibility of evidence:
whether or not the evidence can be used in court; b) weight of evidence:
the quality and completeness of the evidence.

To achieve admissibility of the evidence, the organization should ensure
that their information systems comply with any published standard or
code of practice for the production of admissible evidence.

The weight of evidence provided should comply with any applicable
requirements. To achieve weight of evidence, the quality and
completeness of the controls used to correctly and consistently protect
the evidence (i.e. process control evidence) throughout the period that
the evidence to be recovered was stored and processed should be
demonstrated by a strong evidence trail. In general, such a strong trail
can be established under the following conditions: a) for paper
documents: the original is kept securely with a record of the individual
who found the document, where the document was found, when the document
was found and who witnessed the discovery; any investigation should
ensure that originals are not tampered with; b) for information on
computer media: mirror images or copies (depending on applicable
requirements) of any removable media, information on hard disks or in
memory should be taken to ensure availability; the log of all actions
during the copying process should be kept and the process should be
witnessed; the original media and the log (if this is not possible, at
least one mirror image or copy) should be kept securely and untouched.

Any forensics work should only be performed on copies of the evidential
material. The integrity of all evidential material should be protected.
Copying of evidential material should be supervised by trustworthy
personnel and information on when and where the copying process was
executed, who performed the copying activities and which tools and
programs have been utilized should be logged.

When an information security event is first detected, it may not be
obvious whether or not the event will result in court action. Therefore,
the danger exists that necessary evidence is destroyed intentionally or
accidentally before the seriousness of the incident is realized. It is
advisable to involve a lawyer or the police early in any contemplated
legal action and take advice on the evidence required.

Evidence may transcend organizational and/or jurisdictional boundaries.
In such cases, it should be ensured that the organization is entitled to
collect the required information as evidence. The requirements of
different jurisdictions should also be considered to maximize chances of
admission across the relevant jurisdictions.

<details><summary>References</summary>

1.  ISO 27002:2005 13.2.3 "Collection of evidence"
2.  PCI DSS 3.2.1 "Requirement
    [12.10.5](76d31bbe-7051-40a8-97f4-538cfb554c2f)" Include alerts from
    security monitoring systems </details>

Compliance
==========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Revision history
================

<style>
table { border-collapse: collapse; width: 100%; }
td, th { border: 1px solid #dddddd; text-align: left; padding: 8px; }
</style>
<table>
<tr>
<th>
Date
</th>
<th>
Name
</th>
<th>
Reason
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
20191107
</td>
<td>
Stephen Hepner
</td>
<td>
rewrite of initial draft into this document model
</td>
</tr>
</table>
